Arrays and sequential representations – ordered lists – Stacks and Queues – Evaluation 
ofExpressions – Multiple Stacks and Queues – Singly Linked List – Linked Stacks and 
queues – Polynomial addition. 
Data Structure Introduction: 
The data structure name indicates itself that organizing the data in memory. 
There are many ways of organizing the data in the memory as we have already seen 
one of the data structures, i.e., array in C language. Array is a collection of memory 
elements in which data is stored sequentially, i.e., one after another. In other words, 
we can say that array stores the elements in a continuous manner. This organization 
of data is done with the help of an array of data structures. There are also other ways 
to organize the data in memory. To structure the data in memory, 'n' number of 
algorithms were proposed, and all these algorithms are known as Abstract data 
types. These abstract data types are the set of rules.  
Types of Data Structures 
There are two types of data structures: 
o Primitive data structure 
o Non-primitive data structure 
Primitive Data structure 
The primitive data structures are primitive data types. The int, char, float, double, and 
pointer are the primitive data structures that can hold a single value. 
Non-Primitive Data structure 
The non-primitive data structure is divided into two types: 
 Linear data structure 
 Non-linear data structure 
Linear Data Structure 
The arrangement of data in a sequential manner is known as a linear data structure. 
The data structures used for this purpose are Arrays, Linked list, Stacks, and Queues. 
In these data structures, one element is connected to only one another element in a 
linear form. 
Non- Linear Structure: 
When one element is connected to the 'n' number of elements known as a non
linear data structure. The best example is trees and graphs. In this case, the elements 
are arranged in a random manner. 
Data structures can also be classified as: 
 Static data structure: It is a type of data structure where the size is allocated 
at the compile time. Therefore, the maximum size is fixed. 
 Dynamic data structure: It is a type of data structure where the size is 
allocated at the run time. Therefore, the maximum size is flexible. 
Major Operations 
The major or the common operations that can be performed on the data structures 
are: 
o Searching: We can search for any element in a data structure. 
o Sorting: We can sort the elements of a data structure either in an ascending 
or descending order. 
o Insertion: We can also insert the new element in a data structure. 
o Updation: We can also update the element, i.e., we can replace the element 
with another element. 
o Deletion: We can also perform the delete operation to remove the element 
from the data structure. 
Advantages of Data structures 
The following are the advantages of a data structure: 
o Efficiency: If the choice of a data structure for implementing a particular ADT 
is proper, it makes the program very efficient in terms of time and space. 
o Reusability: The data structure provides reusability means that multiple client 
programs can use the data structure. 
o Abstraction: The data structure specified by an ADT also provides the level of 
abstraction. The client cannot see the internal working of the data structure, 
so it does not have to worry about the implementation part. The client can 
only see the interface. 
Arrays and Sequential Representation